README.md, before:

This is a fork of https://github.com/Gaoyiminggithub/Graphonomy with some additional useful scripts added.

# Graphonomy: Universal Human Parsing via Graph Transfer Learning

This repository contains the code for the paper:

[**Graphonomy: Universal Human Parsing via Graph Transfer Learning**](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04536)
,Ke Gong, Yiming Gao, Xiaodan Liang, Xiaohui Shen, Meng Wang, Liang Lin.

# Environment and installation

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Inference

It is recommended to **download current Universal model (preferably) from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sWJ54lCBFnzCNz5RTCGQmkVovkY9x8_D/view)** or a model trained on CIHP from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eUe18HoH05p0yFUd_sN6GXdTj82aW0m9/view?usp=sharing).

Try `python exp/inference/inference_folder.py --help`:

```
  --model_path MODEL_PATH
                        Where the model weights are.
  --images_path IMAGES_PATH
                        Where to look for images. Can be a file with a list of paths, or a
                        directory (will be searched recursively for png/jpg/jpeg files).
  --output_dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        A directory where to save the results. Will be created if doesn't exist.
                        The output directory structure will follow the one in `IMAGES_PATH`.
  --tta TTA             
                        A list of scales for test-time augmentation.
                        Default: "1,0.75,0.5,1.25,1.5,1.75"
```

Example:

```shell
python exp/inference/inference_folder.py  \
--model_path data/model/universal_trained.pth \
--images_path example_images \
--output_dir example_outputs
--tta 1.0,0.75,0.5,1.25 \
``` 

While `--tta` argument (test-time augmentation, TTA) is not mandatory to be specified (default value: 1.0,0.75,0.5,1.25,1.5,1.75), one can use it to enhance quality of results and autoresize images before passing them to the predicting network. For high-resolution images, such as FullHD, super-resolution TTA can cause occupied GPU memory to increase rapidly.

### Training
#### Data Preparation
+ You need to download the human parsing dataset, prepare the images and store in `/data/datasets/dataset_name/`.
We recommend to symlink the path to the dataets to `/data/dataset/` as follows

```
# symlink the Pascal-Person-Part dataset for example
ln -s /path_to_Pascal_Person_Part/* data/datasets/pascal/
```
+ The file structure should look like:
```
/Graphonomy
  /data
    /datasets
      /pascal
        /JPEGImages
        /list
        /SegmentationPart
      /CIHP_4w
        /Images
        /lists
        ...  
```
+ The datasets (CIHP & ATR) are available  at [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0BzvH3bSnp3E9ZW9paE9kdkJtM3M?usp=sharing) 
and [baidu drive](http://pan.baidu.com/s/1nvqmZBN).
And you also need to download the label with flipped.
Download [cihp_flipped](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1aaJyQH-hlZEAsA7iH-mYeK1zLfQi8E2j/view?usp=sharing), unzip and store in `data/datasets/CIHP_4w/`. 
Download [atr_flip](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iR8Tn69IbDSM7gq_GG-_s11HCnhPkyG3/view?usp=sharing), unzip and store in `data/datasets/ATR/`.

#### Transfer learning
1. Download the Pascal pretrained model(available soon).
2. Run the `sh train_transfer_cihp.sh`.
3. The results and models are saved in exp/transfer/run/.
4. Evaluation and visualization script is eval_cihp.sh. You only need to change the attribute of `--loadmodel` before you run it.

#### Universal training
1. Download the [pretrained](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18WiffKnxaJo50sCC9zroNyHjcnTxGCbk/view?usp=sharing) model and store in /data/pretrained_model/.
2. Run the `sh train_universal.sh`.
3. The results and models are saved in exp/universal/run/.

### Testing 
If you want to evaluate the performance of a pre-trained model on PASCAL-Person-Part or CIHP val/test set, 
simply run the script: `sh eval_cihp/pascal.sh`.
Specify the specific model. And we provide the final model that you can download and store it in /data/pretrained_model/.

# Citation

```
@inproceedings{Gong2019Graphonomy,
author = {Ke Gong and Yiming Gao and Xiaodan Liang and Xiaohui Shen and Meng Wang and Liang Lin},
title = {Graphonomy: Universal Human Parsing via Graph Transfer Learning},
booktitle = {CVPR},
year = {2019},
}

```

# Contact
if you have any questions about this repo, please feel free to contact 
[gaoym9@mail2.sysu.edu.cn](mailto:gaoym9@mail2.sysu.edu.cn).

##

## Related work
+ Self-supervised Structure-sensitive Learning [SSL](https://github.com/Engineering-Course/LIP_SSL)
+ Joint Body Parsing & Pose Estimation Network  [JPPNet](https://github.com/Engineering-Course/LIP_JPPNet)
+ Instance-level Human Parsing via Part Grouping Network [PGN](https://github.com/Engineering-Course/CIHP_PGN)

Commit message:

Allow saving only foreground mask (add `--save_extra_data` option)

README.md, after:

This is a fork of https://github.com/Gaoyiminggithub/Graphonomy with some additional useful scripts added.

# Graphonomy: Universal Human Parsing via Graph Transfer Learning

This repository contains the code for the paper:

[**Graphonomy: Universal Human Parsing via Graph Transfer Learning**](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04536)
,Ke Gong, Yiming Gao, Xiaodan Liang, Xiaohui Shen, Meng Wang, Liang Lin.

# Environment and installation

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Inference

It is recommended to **download current Universal model (preferably) from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sWJ54lCBFnzCNz5RTCGQmkVovkY9x8_D/view)** or a model trained on CIHP from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eUe18HoH05p0yFUd_sN6GXdTj82aW0m9/view?usp=sharing).

Try `python exp/inference/inference_folder.py --help`:

```
  --model_path MODEL_PATH
                        Where the model weights are.
  --images_path IMAGES_PATH
                        Where to look for images. Can be a file with a list of paths, or a
                        directory (will be searched recursively for png/jpg/jpeg files).
  --output_dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        A directory where to save the results. Will be created if doesn't exist.
                        The output directory structure will follow the one in `IMAGES_PATH`,
                        all subfolders will be created.
  --tta TTA             
                        A list of scales for test-time augmentation.
                        Default: "1,0.75,0.5,1.25,1.5,1.75"
  --save_extra_data
                        Save parts' segmentation masks, colored segmentation masks and images with removed background.
                        If not specified, only foreground probability masks will be saved.
```

Example:

```shell
python exp/inference/inference_folder.py  \
--model_path data/model/universal_trained.pth \
--images_path example_images \
--output_dir example_outputs
--tta 1.0,0.75,0.5,1.25
``` 

While `--tta` argument (test-time augmentation, TTA) is not mandatory to be specified (default value: 1.0,0.75,0.5,1.25,1.5,1.75), one can use it to enhance quality of results and autoresize images before passing them to the predicting network. For high-resolution images, such as FullHD, super-resolution TTA can cause occupied GPU memory to increase rapidly.

### Training
#### Data Preparation
+ You need to download the human parsing dataset, prepare the images and store in `/data/datasets/dataset_name/`.
We recommend to symlink the path to the dataets to `/data/dataset/` as follows

```
# symlink the Pascal-Person-Part dataset for example
ln -s /path_to_Pascal_Person_Part/* data/datasets/pascal/
```
+ The file structure should look like:
```
/Graphonomy
  /data
    /datasets
      /pascal
        /JPEGImages
        /list
        /SegmentationPart
      /CIHP_4w
        /Images
        /lists
        ...  
```
+ The datasets (CIHP & ATR) are available  at [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0BzvH3bSnp3E9ZW9paE9kdkJtM3M?usp=sharing) 
and [baidu drive](http://pan.baidu.com/s/1nvqmZBN).
And you also need to download the label with flipped.
Download [cihp_flipped](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1aaJyQH-hlZEAsA7iH-mYeK1zLfQi8E2j/view?usp=sharing), unzip and store in `data/datasets/CIHP_4w/`. 
Download [atr_flip](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iR8Tn69IbDSM7gq_GG-_s11HCnhPkyG3/view?usp=sharing), unzip and store in `data/datasets/ATR/`.

#### Transfer learning
1. Download the Pascal pretrained model(available soon).
2. Run the `sh train_transfer_cihp.sh`.
3. The results and models are saved in exp/transfer/run/.
4. Evaluation and visualization script is eval_cihp.sh. You only need to change the attribute of `--loadmodel` before you run it.

#### Universal training
1. Download the [pretrained](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18WiffKnxaJo50sCC9zroNyHjcnTxGCbk/view?usp=sharing) model and store in /data/pretrained_model/.
2. Run the `sh train_universal.sh`.
3. The results and models are saved in exp/universal/run/.

### Testing 
If you want to evaluate the performance of a pre-trained model on PASCAL-Person-Part or CIHP val/test set, 
simply run the script: `sh eval_cihp/pascal.sh`.
Specify the specific model. And we provide the final model that you can download and store it in /data/pretrained_model/.

# Citation

```
@inproceedings{Gong2019Graphonomy,
author = {Ke Gong and Yiming Gao and Xiaodan Liang and Xiaohui Shen and Meng Wang and Liang Lin},
title = {Graphonomy: Universal Human Parsing via Graph Transfer Learning},
booktitle = {CVPR},
year = {2019},
}

```

# Contact
if you have any questions about this repo, please feel free to contact 
[gaoym9@mail2.sysu.edu.cn](mailto:gaoym9@mail2.sysu.edu.cn).

##

## Related work
+ Self-supervised Structure-sensitive Learning [SSL](https://github.com/Engineering-Course/LIP_SSL)
+ Joint Body Parsing & Pose Estimation Network  [JPPNet](https://github.com/Engineering-Course/LIP_JPPNet)
+ Instance-level Human Parsing via Part Grouping Network [PGN](https://github.com/Engineering-Course/CIHP_PGN)
